---
title: Soursop
tags:
- 
---
**Soursop**, also called graviola, is the fruit of the Annona muricata tree.

## Healing Properties

## Disease / Symptom Treatment

[^1]: **Study Type:**  Animal Study<br>**Title:** Administration of a Nutraceutical Mixture Composed by Aloe arborescens, Annona muricata, Morinda citrifolia, Beta rubra, Scutellaria baicalensis, and Vaccinium myrtillus Reduces Doxorubicin-Induced Side Effects<br>**Author(s):** Natasha Irrera, Giovanni Pallio, Federica Mannino, Rosario Gugliotta, Daniela Metro, Domenica Altavilla, and Francesco Squadrito<br>**Institution(s):** Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Messina, c/o AOU Policlinico G. Martino, Gazzi, Messina, Italy; Department of Biomedical and Dental Sciences and Morphological and Functional Sciences, University of Messina, c/o AOU Policlinico G. Martino, Gazzi, Messina, Italy<br>**Publication:** <i>Nutrition and Cancer</i><br>**Date:** May 2019<br>**Abstract:** <i>The antibiotic doxorubicin is often used as an anti-neoplastic drug; however, many patients showed very unpleasant side-effects. Previous studies have demonstrated that dietary substances such as Aloe arborescens, Annona muricata, Morinda citrifolia, Beta rubra, Scutellaria baicalensis, and Vaccinium myrtillus may have anti-oxidant, anti-proliferative, and anti-inflammatory effects. The purpose of this study was to investigate the protective effects of a mixture of these components in an experimental model of doxorubicin toxicity. Rats (n = 30) received doxorubicin (5 mg/kg/day) for 4 weeks and were randomized to receive the dietary mixture 2 hours following the first doxorubicin injection and until the end of the experiment. Animals were killed following 4 weeks, and blood, liver, and heart were collected for further analysis. The dietary supplement improved the depressed body weight and food consumption induced by DOX. In addition, the nutraceutical mixture reduced oxidative stress, ameliorated the morphological score, and preserved liver and heart structure, demonstrating a protective effect. These data show for the first time that the mixture of Aloe arborescens, Annona muricata, Morinda citrifolia, Beta rubra, Scutellaria baicalensis, and Vaccinium myrtillus may be useful to reduce the side effects following treatment with doxorubicin, and might ameliorate the quality of life of patients following chemotherapy.</i><br>**Link:** [Source](https://doi.org/10.1080/01635581.2019.1633364)<br>**Citations:**

[^5]: **Study Type:**  Animal Study, Commentary, Human Study: In Vitro - In Vivo - In Silico, Human: Case Report, Meta Analysis, Review<br>**Title:** <br>**Author(s):**  <br>**Institution(s):** <br>**Publication:** <i> </i><br>**Date:** <br>**Abstract:** <i> </i><br>**Link:** [Source]()<br>**Citations:**   