---
title: "The Prophetic Unveiling of World Kingdoms: Part 1"
image: Bible
tags:
- Daniel 2
---
# Description

These notes are based off of a sermon given at The Mission Church / Sunday 6-30-2024 9:45 Service by Pastor David Menard.

This sermon covers Daniel 2:1-36.


## Background of Contemporary Events

- Rise of AI
  - AI Robots walking among us
- Wars
  - Russia & Ukraine
  - Hezbolla and Hamas against Israel
- China against the United States
- Lack of leadership in the US
  - Presidential debate is out of touch

- God has the future under control.
- He is soverign over everything.
- He raises up nations, and He brings down nations.

## Bible Study

- Babylon is the prevailing world power.
- 605 BC Daniel is taken captive by Babylon.
- Babylon is an advanced civilization.
- Daniel purposes in his heart not to defile himself with the ways of the world and put the Lord in his heart, to live for God.
- Daniel is put in a 3 year study program under Babylon.
- Daniel graduates with honors in the study program, by God's blessing.
- Now Daniel is promoted to be an advisor for the babylonian king.
- King Nebuchenezzer has a troubling dream.
  - In verse 4 the book of danile goes from hebrew to arahmaiac (very unusual)
  - Hebrew is the language to the Jews, Arahamaic was the language to the entire world (at that time). This was a message to the entire world!
  - the majority of the old testament was written in hebrew, and now it changes to arahmaic

- Verse 5-6:
  - "The king answered and said to the Chaldeans, “My decision is firm: if you do not make known the dream to me, and its interpretation, you shall be cut in pieces, and your houses shall be made an ash heap. However, if you tell the dream and its interpretation, you shall receive from me gifts, rewards, and great honor. Therefore tell me the dream and its interpretation.”
- Carnal Leaders Morivate with Fear, Flattery, Finances
  - Self preseveration: humans will do anything to save their own skin
    - Self preservation is a powerful motivator
  - Finances (due to greed or scarcity)
  - Jesus never used fear, flattery, or finances to motivate anyone
    - Jesus did the opposite...
      - Matthew 8:20 NKJV "And Jesus said to him, “Foxes have holes and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay His head.”
    - Jesus met people where they were and cared for them. He built them up, enabled and empowered people.
  - Fear and Finances may motivate for a season, until something better comes along.


- King Nebuchadnezzar is unhappy with himself, and also unhappy with everyone around him.
  - Even though he has accomplished world domination, he is still unhappy and unable to sleep. He is deeply troubled in his soul.
  - He lacks a relationship with God.
- Nebuchadnezzar sees that his spiritual wise men are incappable of interpreting his dream, so he sends a decree to kill them all.
  - God is showing that false religion and false sprituality is worthless.
    - They have the appearance of working when things are going well.
  - He can see there is no substance to his wise men, it is all frivelous, and folly
  - Fake Christianity is equally wothless
    - Many today believe in a fake Jesus, not the Jesus of the Bible, not a Jesus who is Lord of our Life.
      - The bible warns us of these fake Jesus'
    - 1 John 2:18
      Antichrist doesnt mean anti- or against Jesus it means instead of Jesus
    - "1 John 2:18 New King James Version
      - Deceptions of the Last Hour
        - "Little children, it is the last hour; and as you have heard that the Antichrist is coming, even now many antichrists have come, by which we know that it is the last hour."
    - Faith in the real Jesus is life giving and transforming!
      - Fake Jesus' can't save or heal or transform our lives.
- When you see the real Jesus, your values begin to change and you start living different.  Jesus builds people as they walk with him.
  - Jesus provides wisdom, discernment, and growth as He shows you the right path.
  - He is able to save us from our sin and transform our lives
- 1 Corinthians 6:9-11
  - New King James Version
  - "Do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived. Neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor homosexuals, nor sodomites, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners will inherit the kingdom of God.  And such were some of you. But you were washed, but you were sanctified, but you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God."
  - "Such WERE some of you..."
    - We die to our old identities (through baptism).
    - We die and are ressurected through the Spirit of God.

- Faith in the real Jesus is Life-Giving & Transforming

- Couldn't God Protect Daniel from this hardship?
  - It's a false question because God protects us from all kinds of things we never even knew were comming our way.
  - But why didn't God protect Daniel from this
    - Instead of preventing all suffering, God uses hardship to advance and promote His man.
    - Dire dilema was be used to promote Daniel both in his own time and well into the future.
- James 1:2
  - Profiting from Trials
    - "My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into various trials, knowing that the testing of your faith produces patience. But let patience have its perfect work, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking nothing. If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask of God, who gives to all liberally and without reproach, and it will be given to him. But let him ask in faith, with no doubting, for he who doubts is like a wave of the sea driven and tossed by the wind. For let not that man suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord; he is a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways."


- What an authentic Relationship with God Looks like:
  - In faith, Daniel stands firm against fierce opposition and hardship.
    - Instead of worrying and complaining and questioning why God isn't preventing this.
    - He could have sowed discord among others.
    - He stands firm in faith even before God reveals anything to him.
  - Daniel controls his feelings, speaks with wisdom, and leads well.
    - He goes to his boss and counsels him with wisdom.
  - In fervent prayer, Daniel seeks God for wisdom.
    - He calls his buddies to meet and pray with him.
  - God mercifully provides the solution to Daniel's problem.
    - God speaks to our heart, and enlightens our understanding, revealing the solution.
  - Daniel praises God with awe, delight, and love.
    - He writes a love song of praise to his God.
  
Daniel's Song:

- Daniel 2:20-23
  - New King James Version

"Daniel answered and said:
  “Blessed be the name of God forever and ever,
  For wisdom and might are His.
  And He changes the times and the seasons;
  He removes kings and raises up kings;
  He gives wisdom to the wise
  And knowledge to those who have understanding.
  He reveals deep and secret things;
  He knows what is in the darkness,
  And light dwells with Him.

  “I thank You and praise You,
  O God of my fathers;
  You have given me wisdom and might,
  And have now made known to me what we asked of You,
  For You have made known to us the king’s demand.”

- God is building Daniel's character under extreme hardship.
  - He is building Daniel in his ability to stand firm under pressure
  - In his ability to lead others in prayer, in the word, in faith.
  - God wants to make Daniel an advisor to kings.
  - He wants to make Daniel a prophet to the nations.
  - He is building him as a man, as a man who knows the true and living God.

- Daniel has an authentic relation ship to God.  And God is going to use Daniel in a prophetic and divine way.

- Charles H Spurgeon on Proverbs 30
  - "One mark of a man’s true wisdom is his knowledge of his ignorance. Have you never noticed how the clean heart always mourns its uncleanness, and the wise man always laments his folly? It needs holiness to detect our own unholiness, and it needs wisdom to discover our own folly. When a man talks of his own cleanness, his very lips are foul with pride; and when a man boasts of his wisdom, he proclaims his folly with trumpet sound."



## Transcript

uh we are in a study on the Book of
Daniel and uh the series is titled
living for God in a pagan World very
appropriate Daniel had been taken out of
Jerusalem and brought to Babylon was
once in the uh place where he was raised
in a Christian home and taught the Bible
and now he's taken 900 miles
away to Babylon which is a pagan
environment and we'll see Daniel living
out his faith in a pagan world and very
much applicable to us today as well in
this post-christian nation that we are
living in uh today the we've been in the
series for a couple of weeks today the
title of the message is the prophetic
unveiling of world
kingdoms and this is part one of a
two-part talk the prophetic unveiling of
world kingdoms here's where we're going
in Daniel chapter 2 Nebuchadnezzar has a
dream and this dream will reveal the
kingdoms of the Earth from 600 BC all
the way until the second Advent of Jesus
Christ and so we've got an amazing uh
prophecy to look into as we jump into
this and it's very much in the narrative
form which is unusual it's a really cool
how God did this this story of what
happens in Daniel's life that we're
going to jump into
uh we are living in troubling times are
we
not as we look at this unveiling of
world kingdoms we're looking at the
world going well what's going on in the
world I mean all kinds of issues going
on uh we know that uh uh the economies
are unraveling we have this uncertainty
of AI coming into the world uh it's
progressing so rapidly uh what is it
going to be like when we have ai robots
walking around that are smarter than
humans like crazy what the future may
hold as we move forward on top of that
we look at the world and we see
crises on all four corners of the
earth Israel is at war with Hamas we've
got Iran backing
Hamas and we have Russia backing Iran
we've got the United States backing
Israel and so that brings conflict
between us and Russia just just right
there uh we have the Palestinian
conundrum uh what do we do there and
then we have this mystery of
anti-Semitism that is just rising in the
world what the heck is going on with
that on top of all that we have the war
in Ukraine and in the war in Ukraine we
see uh uh interesting how Iran is
supporting Russia in the war on Ukraine
and China is supporting Russia Russia
and now we have a new member partnering
to now support Russia who's the newest
member of this last week North Korea now
coming in to support Russia and we've
got the United States and and NATO
supporting Ukraine and wow it is just
tension man nuclear tensions are rising
uh we haven't even talked about China
and what's going on there as they want
to invade Taiwan and China uh wanting to
become the world Kingdom right uh
sending spy balloons into the United
States sending scuba diver swimmers into
uh uh into Florida there at um what's
the uh Cape canaver thank you uh uh and
and like spies everywhere coming from
China we found them all uh stealing our
secrets and all kinds like what is going
on and people are wondering what is the
world coming to
how will all this turn out then we watch
the debate this week and at least we can
rest that we have great men at the helm
right arguing about golf scores and
who's the heaviest right who who's the
fattest uh great things for a
presidential
debate we look at all that and we think
what's the world coming to well God has
the
future under
control I want you to know the Book of
Daniel if it does anything for us it
reminds us that God is Sovereign over
everything and may the words of Jesus
bring reassurance to our souls Jesus
said not a sparrow falls to the
ground without your heavenly father
knowing it he holds we're going to learn
in in Daniel that he raises up Nations
and he brings down Nations and today
we're going to see a powerful display of
God's Sovereign sovereignty over the
Affairs of the world we pick up our
study in Chapter 2 with Daniel this
young
intelligent Noble from Jerusalem who was
taken captive at only about 15 years of
age and he's taken 900 miles from
Jerusalem to
Babylon as Babylon has become the world
power
at this time 605 BC Daniel was taken
captive and he leaves his homeland he
goes to this Pagan land it would be like
taking a teenager and giving him all
kinds of power and money and putting
them in Las Vegas and turning them loose
to be like what potential for disaster
right and Daniel in this Pagan immoral
Land by the way if you think that
Babylon was like a third world country
you are grossly mistaken we looked at
this in previous weeks the architecture
it was an advanced civilization they
were advanced in sciences and all these
things we looked at all that in the
previous weeks but Daniel is taken and
he's brought into Babylon and Daniel
instead of being corrupted by Babylon
Daniel does something profound he
purposed in his heart not to defile
himself with the things of the world but
to live his life for
God and so God is using him and he gets
put in this PhD program that the king
puts him in he was already well educated
he came from a noble family uh the king
seems sees potential in him and he puts
him in this three-year PhD program in
Babylon to be trained in literature and
in the sciences and and again uh Babylon
very
Advanced and there Daniel purposes in
his heart to live for God and God he
works works hard in his studies and God
blesses him and at the end of the
three-year term Daniel stands before the
king and the King realizes there are
none wiser there are none better than
this young Daniel God had given him
favor before the king and that's where
we left off he's been promoted now to be
in this uh an advisor to the king and
here in chapter two we're going to see
God is going to do something very
interesting everything seems to be going
swimmingly swimmingly Daniel is promoted
to be uh an adviser to the king and now
in Chapter
2 God is going to give the King
Nebuchadnezzar a troubling dream how
many of you have ever had a troubling
dream before I want you to know you got
nothing on
Nebuchadnezzar this dream troubled him
so badly we're going to see it affected
his his whole life his day-to-day
operations uh so Daniel chapter 2 are
you there let's pray as we open our
Bibles
Jesus we come before you and we thank
you Lord that you are The Sovereign king
of
kings that you have the Whole World in
Your
Hands and Lord today as we have gathered
to Worship You To Praise You Lord we now
open your word and we ask that you would
speak to us for it's you that we want to
know reveal to us Lord your mind reveal
to us Lord Your
Heart Lord life is difficult and we need
to get our eyes fixed on you to be able
to make it and to be able to thrive and
so Lord would you bless us to know you
deeper to know you better and to be
inspired by your Holy Spirit to
understand your heart and your mind we
ask it in Jesus name and everyone said
am amen chapter 2 verse
1 now in the second year of
Nebuchadnezzar's rain uh we look at this
and we go well wait a minute how long
was Daniel's PhD program three years are
we going back here a year in Chapter 2
no we're not uh it's interesting and and
we know this from history in Babylonian
culture when the king uh came into Power
his first year was called a year of
Ascension and they did not count that as
a year of his Reign it wasn't until he
went through that first year of
Ascension that then his Reign counted so
when it says here the second year of
Nebuchadnezzar it's actually the third
year since he since he besieged
Jerusalem and uh it's after Daniel
finishes this PhD program uh
Nebuchadnezzar the king had dreams and
his Spirit was so troubled that his
sleep left him day after day after day
his soul was troubled he could not sleep
verse two then the king gave the command
to call The Magicians the
astrologers the sorcerers and the caldan
to tell the king his dreams so they came
and they stood before the
king when we read about magicians and
astrologers and Sorcerers uh uh these
were the wise men of Babylon magician
has a different word mean a different
meaning than it than it did back then
this wasn't these weren't guys doing
magic tricks hey King watch me pull a
rabbit out of my hat no no no not at all
uh a magician was someone who was uh uh
in the occult into mystery uh you'll
remember with Pharaoh in Egypt when
Moses stood before him and Moses threw
his staff down and it became a
serpent All The
Magicians uh used their sorcery and they
did did similar things right and and so
we see that these were uh in these Pagan
cultures these were men of power uh
astrologers were the study uh not just
horescope stuff this this is the they
determine the orbit of the planets and
Babylon figured out and made the first
calendar they had a calendar that is
accurate to this day and and uh anyway
the sorcerers they were the ones who
practiced incantations and curses and
all these things and these are the ones
that the king brings before him they're
his top advisors and they stand before
the king verse
three and they said excuse me and the
King said to them I had a dream
and my spirit is anxious to know the
dream anxious the Hebrew word deeply
troubled I had a dream and I am deeply
troubled about this dream verse four
then the calans spoke to the king in
Aramaic oh King live forever tell your
servants the dream and we will give you
the interpretation
I want you to put a little side note in
your Bible on verse four right here
because something happens in the
original manuscripts of the Book of
Daniel The Book of Daniel here in verse
four goes from Hebrew to
Aramaic and chapter 2 through chapter 7
will be written in Aramaic very
unusual uh the majority of the entire
Old Testament is written in Hebrew and
now this language goes to Aramaic and
we'll talk about why late in the service
uh so verse four it goes to Aramaic and
they say hey tell us the dream and we'll
give you the interpretation the king
answered and said to the calans that's
all his wise men my decision is
firm if you do not make known the dream
to me and its
interpretation you shall be cut in
pieces and your houses shall be made an
ash Heap not only will I cut you in h in
in pieces but I'll destroy your homes
wow however verse six if you tell the
dream and its
interpretation you shall receive from me
gifts rewards and great honor therefore
tell me the dream and its
interpretation very interesting here
isn't it how we see uh Nebuchadnezzar
handling this
uh here he's troubled by this dream and
he wants to motivate his crew and so
what does he do he threatens their
lives and he promises them great
wealth and I have seen I have learned
you have too carnal leaders motivate
other people with
fear with
flattery and with
finances if you have a boss he's
probably or she has probably used these
tactics on
you hey your numbers are down and
there's
cutbacks you better get your numbers up
what are they using
fear uh or hey if you start performing
you'll get a bonus what are they
using finances yeah and uh it's common
it's how carnal leaders lead and it's
effective for two reasons number one
self-preservation humans will do
anything to save their own
skin self-preservation is a powerful
motivator and so leaders use it because
it
works secondly not only
self-preservation that's why they use
fear but they use finances
because people are they love money
they're greedy for money and uh finances
are a tremendous motivator and so these
things work um it's very interesting to
look at though as we think about Jesus
Jesus never used fear never used
flattery and never used finances to
motivate
anybody isn't that
interesting Jesus did just the opposite
he never offered his followers financial
gain as a matter of fact he told them
just the opposite he said are you sure
you want to follow me because foxes have
holes birds have nests but the son of
man has no place to lay his head you
sure you want to follow me I don't even
have a home I don't even have a bedroom
I don't even have a pillow you sure you
want to follow
me very
interesting how then did Jesus motivate
people to follow him and boy did they no
person has ever had so many followers as
Jesus Christ followers who were even
willing to be
martyred instead of deny that he
resurrected from the
grave how did
he build such a following how did he
motivate people to follow him if he
didn't use fear flattery in
finances well Jesus did
something far
better he cared about people what a
concept he cared about them he loved
them he spoke wisdom into their
lives he built them up he took them as
they were with all their problems with
all their hurts with all their habits
with all their
Hang-Ups and he met them where they were
but he didn't leave them there he gave
them Vision to be able to see how to get
out of this mess that they were living
in how to quit sinning in this way that
they were that's destroying their life
and how to walk a new
life and he would enable and Empower
them to do it he built them up he gave
them gifts and he loved them
well the reason is Jesus wants more than
our outward OB
obedience Jesus wants heartfelt
obedience he wants our
love fear and greed May motivate someone
for a
season but here's what we know the
moment that a better offer comes along
and you've been motivating with fear and
finances the moment a better offer comes
along what happens to that that person
bye see you and they never look
back and it is one thing to use fear and
flattery and finances and business but
do you know what happens it also begins
to be used in our
homes and how sad it is when in a
marriage fear and finances would be
used how sad in
parenting when fear and finances would
be used as
motivation well I'm going to ground you
well I'll buy you this careful
careful and then kids go off to college
and they never look back and you don't
see
them but a relationship built like
Jesus is powerful fear and greed May
motivate for a season but when we love
others like Jesus did when we build
relationships like Jesus did
relationships that capture the heart it
will produce a bond of Love That is not
easily
broken and this is true for employees
this is true for fathers and daughters I
just see a dad patting his daughter on
the knee so beautiful uh this is true
for
marriages and may we be wise look at
Nebuchadnezzar's carnal
leadership King Nebuchadnezzar is so
troubled by this dream that he lays The
Gauntlet down and he says listen you're
going to be cut in half if you don't
tell me these things uh let's go on in
our story let's see what develops uh
we're on verse seven uh they that's the
wise men his his court his advisers they
answered again and said let the king
tell his servants the dream and we will
give its interpretation and the King
answered and said I know for certain
that you would gain
time because you see that my decision is
firm if you do not make known the dream
to me there is only one decree for you
what decree is that chopped in pieces
yeah for you have agreed to speak lying
and corrupt words before me till the
time has
changed what's he saying he's saying
you're trying to buy time you know right
now I'm I'm really bothered by this and
I'm really demanding right now and
you're trying to buy time thinking that
hey in a couple of weeks the king will
forget about this dream and everything
will be okay and the King says not going
to
happen that's how big this impact of
this dream made on him he says the last
part of verse 9 therefore tell me the
dream and I shall know that you can give
me its
interpretation if not you guys are fakes
is what he's saying verse 10 then the
calans that's his court the wise men his
advisers they answered the king and said
there is not a man on Earth who can tell
the king's matter therefore no King no
Lord no ruler has ever asked such a
thing of any of The Magicians or
astrologers or the caldan it is a
difficult thing the king requests there
is what what are they saying right here
they're saying King out of your
mind no King has ever asked someone to
tell the king what his dream
was uh you you're just and look what
they say there is no other who can tell
it to the king except the gods whose
dwelling is not with
flesh may I say to you God is using
these
Pagan
idolatrous Pagan worship
ERS to speak a word of Truth to the king
only the gods could know and look what
he says for this
reason the King was
angry and very Furious and he gave
command to destroy all the wise men of
Babylon Nebuchadnezzar was a brilliant
man a brilliant
leader and he's fed up with these guys
he's going I think I smell a rat I think
you guys are just telling me nonsense
all the time so verse 13 so the decree
went out and they began killing the wise
men and they sought to kill Daniel and
his companions uh excuse me they sought
Daniel and his companions to kill them
wow what a major plot twist in this
story King Nebuchadnezzar has a
troubling dream and now everyone is in
trouble including
Daniel Daniel's life is in trouble
Nebuchadnezzar is the most powerful the
most wealthy uh the
most he's got everything he's got a
world Kingdom yet his soul is deeply
troubled and he cannot sleep he's
miserable and he's unhappy with everyone
around him because he's unhappy on the
inside isn't that interesting how that
works you think Nebuchadnezzar would be
really happy he has just obtained World
Dominion he has the strongest Nation on
the earth at this time his army defeated
Pharaoh NE Neco just a few years early
in 605 BC uh he defeated Egypt pharoh
Niko at um kabish right there on the
Euphrates and he accomplished something
that even the Egyptians had not been
able to do he accomplished World
Dominion
and with all his power with all his
wealth with all his Fame he can't sleep
and he's
miserable if nebie went to a shrink
today they would medicate
him but I want you to know that is not
his
problem Nebuchadnezzar does not need
proac that is not his problem his
problem is his relationship with God
he does not have
one and God brings all people no matter
where they're at in life no matter if
they're living high on the hog or at the
bottom of the barrel he brings us all to
this place where we're like we're deeply
troubled in our soul until we know
him so interesting that all the power
and money in the world cannot buy peace
and
contentment in his misery he is killing
those closest to him which is often what
we
do we see that he's just deeply troubled
and so he calls all his philosophers and
his spiritualists for help but they're
of no value no help whatsoever when
tragedy tragedy
strikes they can't do anything for him
and it's very interesting what God is
putting on display here for us is he's
showing us that false religions and
false spirituality are all what
worthless
worthless these bankrupt belief systems
they have an appearance of value when
things are going well but the moment
that tragedy
strikes their
inadequacy is
glaring and here we see that to be the
case with the king's relig ious systems
that he's
employed when I was younger uh I worked
with a guy who was uh uh really into srf
the self-realization fellowship down in
in Cardiff down there um his name was
Dharma uh and Dharma if you're listening
I haven't seen you in 30 40 years I'd
love to know where longer than that I'd
love to no I guess I'm not that old yeah
30 40
years I'd love to know where you are so
say hello but anyway Dharma believed in
uh self-realization fellowship and he
was always talking about being at inner
peace and being one with all things and
being one with the universe he wore
sandals everywhere he went and he would
wear linen baggy clothes and kind of
just you know you get the get the
picture and he was always about
hum inner
peace and everything was fine until dar
Dharma would lose a business deal and
when Dharma would lose a business deal
he would flip his tacos he would just
blow up he would just you
know and everyone would wonder hey what
about being one with the universe
whatever happened to that well it's all
fine until you lose a deal it's all fine
until a problem
comes and then we see it is false
spirituality that is totally
worthless if you've ever spent any any
time with a Christian
Scientist you know that you can see the
Folly of their
religion Christian Scientists uh they
believe that they are little gods and
only what they believe is
real and so you if you don't uh you know
you can believe it into existence if you
will and therefore if you've ever seen a
Christian Scientist get a cold it's very
entertaining because they're sick as a
dog they got runny nose green stuff
coming out they're coughing they're
sneezing and you ask are you sick and
they'll answer I'm not sick because if
they believe they're sick then they are
sick and as long as they believe they're
not sick then they're fine and it's
comical you're like dude you're sneezing
you got to run your nose you're like
stay away you're sick I'm not sick and
you see this delusion of their faith and
it's kind of entertaining when you see a
Christian Scientist with a cold but it
is downright tragic when you see a
Christian Scientist with
cancer my brother-in-law his
mom she got cancer she was a Christian
Scientist and her religion she believed
no I'm just not going to say I have
cancer I don't have cancer
and her religion was totally
worthless it left her bankrupt and empty
with no skills whatsoever to deal with
the reality of her situation it was
totally what
worthless so
sad nebuch Nebuchadnezzar can see that
there's no substance to as wise men
there's no substance to this
spirituality they promote it's totally
just it's all frivolous it's all
Folly and I want you to know something
this might sting a little
bit fake
Christianity is equally
worthless it's of no value many today
many today believe in a fake
Jesus uh many churches are teaching a
fake Jes
Jesus it's not the Jesus of the
Bible and believing in Jesus this fake
Jesus it's not a Jesus who's Lord of our
life it's not a Jesus who instructs Us
in the way that we should walk and the
Integrity that we should it's a fake
Jesus and uh well we should not be
surprised that this is prevalent in the
church today for the Bible warned us of
this very thing
the Bible warned us of these fake
jesuses that would be in the world even
in the early church 1 John Chapter 2
here's a verse that uh talks about let
me he you read this in a unified voice
little children it is the last hour and
as you have heard the Antichrist is
coming let's pause there he's saying
listen you've heard you know that in the
last days the Antichrist Capal
singular the Antichrist is coming what's
that well if you're new to the Bible the
Bible tells us there's a world leader
coming onto the scene he will unite all
the world religions together and he will
be be called the Antichrist in the Bible
the the world won't see him that way
Antichrist by the way doesn't mean
against Jesus it means instead of Jesus
big difference it's a different Jesus he
will actually come on and say he's the
Messiah you know Islam has a
messiah right uh uh it's a different
Jesus and he says listen you know the
Bible teaches that in the last days the
Antichrist is coming but now let's read
what he says but even now many
antichrists have come many fake little
uh jesuses are being made and being
propagated and and may we be careful
right may we be
careful uh their Jesus is not the Jesus
of the Bible and he cannot transform a
life he cannot
save false religions and spirituality
are totally
worthless and so is a fake Jesus but I
want you to know something faith in the
real Jesus is
lifegiving and
transforming I so love watching Jesus do
this it is the very reason I'm a pastor
because I love seeing other people
discover who the real Jesus is and start
walking in his ways and watching their
life
transform young or old I've seen young
women come into the church and they
start seeing who the real Jesus is and
their values
change and Jesus builds them and they
start growing with wisdom wisdom and
discernment and they're just start
living different and man it's so awesome
to watch and young men same thing I I
just love watching god build people and
young or old you start walking with
Jesus and he will give you wisdom he'll
give you discernment he'll give you
understanding he'll instruct you in his
path he'll show you things that are that
you're doing in your life that you don't
even know you were stumbling on and he
will re reveal them to them with his
light you will see them clearly and he
will show you the right path and you
will grow exponentially and he will
build you this is what he
does and I never Tire of watching him do
it Jesus is able to save us from our sin
to transform Our
Lives look what Paul would say about
this in 1 Corinthians chapter 6 uh a
great verse uh let's read this together
unified voice do you not know that the
unrighteous will not in inherit the
kingdom of God do not be deceived
neither fornicators nor idolators no
adulterers no
homosexuals nor sodomites nor thieves
nor Covetous nor drunkards nor revilers
no extortioners will inherit the kingdom
of God and such were some of
you uh such were all of you such were
all of
us every sexual sin is mentioned there I
guarantee you you're one of those you
were one of those right uh nor thieves
you ever stole anything I have nor
Covetous you ever been you ever covet
anything I have nor drunkards you ever
been drunk I haven't actually but that
doesn't make that doesn't make me
righteous uh nor revilers nor that you
won't inherit the kingdom and such were
some of
you but Jesus changed you he transformed
you there is a teaching happening in the
church now even here in North County in
some large churches in North County that
are starting to say no no no no no you
can be a
homosexual and still be a Christian you
just can't participate in in homosexual
sex but you can still be a
homosexual well can I remind you what
does verse 11 say and such what were
some of you not such are some of you I
want you to know that is a damnable
Doctrine and that is a different
Jesus you don't keep your ident identity
as an adulterer you don't keep keep your
identity as a thief you don't keep your
identity as a homosexual and say this is
who I am and I believe in Jesus sorry it
doesn't work that
way you die to that old person and that
is why we do baptism baptism is a
picture of that that adulterer dying of
that Thief
dying of that whatever sin that branded
you you that drunker dying and the good
news is is when we baptize you we don't
just leave you
underwater but what
happens you get resurrected it's a
picture of going into the grave and
resurrecting to New Life by the spirit
of God and so there's a thing out there
right now being propagated in churches
even in North County side b
Christianity bogus different Jesus
such were some of
you not such are some of you look at the
rest of the verse but you were washed
you were Sanctified you were justified
in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the
spirit of God all by his power he gives
us new life because faith in the real
Jesus is lifegiving and trans
transforming and I love watching him do
it in me and in you nothing better
nothing
better Nebuchadnezzar had enough of
these
charlatans he was a brilliant King and
he had seen the charade one too many
times and he says no more of this fake
religious stuff man you tell me the
dream tell me this TR Ling dream and no
one
could and Nebuchadnezzar makes a
decree kill the WIS men and now Daniel's
life is in big
trouble Daniel's life is on the chopping
block and it begs the
question couldn't God have protected
Daniel from this hardship
why didn't God protect Daniel from this
hardship and I want you to know that
question is a
strawman
argument it's a straw man question it is
assuming that God didn't protect Daniel
from a million things whenever you go
through something difficult and if you
ask yourself the question why didn't God
protect me in this or you ask God God
why didn't you protect me in this do you
not know there were a million things
that God protected you
from there were a million things that
you never even knew about that God
protected you from so it is a straw man
question to say why didn't God protect
me from this God protects you from all
kinds of things that you never even knew
was going to come your way I am quite
sure when you stand before God he will
show you uh what
your your uh Guardian Angel has done and
saved your life a gajillion times over
that you knew nothing about right uh uh
I'm sure my guardian angel will be
smashed and bruised and pretzel and like
hey dude you gave me a hard time man uh
so uh it's a wrong it's a it's a false
question but let's run with it
anyway um why didn't God
protect Daniel from
this well
instead of preventing all suffering in a
Christian Life God uses hardship to
advance and to promote his
man he does save us from a lot of
hardship but he uses some hardship to
advance and to promote his man and by
man I mean human men and women uh this
is what God
does uh Daniel's life is is in great
danger Daniel's life is in grave danger
you could say but we will see God use
this dire Dilemma to produce something
in Daniel's life that will promote him
into a powerful position of influence to
the
king and to the entire nation not only
today in Daniel's life but for decades
to
come you see God is a we're always
worried about being happy right now God
is often working things way into our
future that we're not even thinking
about he's building
us and God is building Daniel right now
that's why the Bible would teach
us James 1:12 to count it all joy when
you fall into various trials keep the
faith when you fall into trials knowing
that the testing of your faith will
produce patience and let patience have
its perfect work that you might be
listen to these words that you might be
perfect and complete lacking
nothing now the Bible is not saying that
you will become perfect as and never sin
it's saying that you will be you will be
fully equipped for everything that you
need to go through in life that is what
God is doing God uses hardship to build
us up Ariel is now going to come to
Daniel Daniel's boss is going to come to
him and say Daniel I have to kill you
the King has ordered your
execution and I want to ask
you how will Daniel handle this how
would you handle this what would you say
what would you do how would you behave
if you heard the King has ordered your
execution would you say God I can't
believe you did this what's going what
how would you handle it would you
protest what would you look what Daniel
does verse
14 his boss comes to him and says Daniel
sorry we got to kill you uh verse 14
then with counsel and wisdom Circle
those words with
counsel and wisdom Daniel answered arok
his boss the captain of the Guard who
had gone out to kill the wise men of
Babylon Babylon he answered and said to
arok the king's Captain his boss why is
the decree from the king so urgent he
begins to counsel
him then arok made the decision known to
Daniel So Daniel went in and asked the
king to give him more time that he might
tell the king the
interpretation did you catch that he
counsels arok and then he says let me go
before before the king he stands before
the king and what does he say
King I'd like a little more time because
you've asked all your gods of Babylon
and they couldn't do anything but there
is a true and living God he's the
creator of the universe and I know
him and I would like to pray to him and
then I will stand and I will give you
the interpretation of this
dream wow that's pretty powerful man uh
pretty powerful verse 17 then Daniel
went to his house and he made the
decision known to haniah mishel and
Azariah these are his
companions that they might seek the
mercies from God Of Heaven concerning
this secret So Daniel and his companions
might not perish with the rest of the
wise men of Babylon what a Daniel do he
called a prayer meeting with his buddies
right he says guys listen I stood before
the king I told him uh we need time to
seek God guys it's time to do what pray
verse
19 then the secret was revealed to
Daniel in a night
vision and Daniel blessed the god of
Heaven the true and living God who saved
his
life and now Daniel writes a song Daniel
writes a poem you'll notice this is a
ented indented differently uh because
it's Hebrew poetry it's a song that
Daniel wrote It's a Love Song song look
what he writes Daniel answered and said
blessed be the name of God forever and
ever I wish I had the melody it' be fun
to sing it for wisdom and might are his
he's saying God is worthy of Our Praise
uh God is the one who grants us with
wisdom and power look what he says verse
21 he changes the times and the seasons
he removes Kings and he raises up Kings
this is going to be a theme in Daniel
God is Sovereign over all the kingdoms
of the world including the king who
wants to kill me right
now
interesting he gives wisdom to the wise
and he gives knowledge to those who have
understanding what's that he gives
wisdom to the wise who seek God and he
gives knowledge to those who know enough
to come to God he gives them more wisdom
and he gives them more understanding
verse 22 he reveal feels deep and secret
things he knows what is in the Darkness
and Light dwells with him here's what
Daniel is saying nothing is hidden from
God God always knows what the most evil
PE people are doing and God always knows
how to deal with it nothing is out of
his grasp verse 23 I thank you and I
praise you oh god of my fathers for you
have given me wisdom and might you've
given me wisdom and power God thank you
so much for enlightening me you have
made known to me what we asked for you
have made known to us the king's demand
therefore Daniel went to arok his boss
whom the king had appointed to destroy
the wise men of Babylon and he went in
and said thus to him stop your knife
right just stop right now do not destroy
the wise men of Babylon take me before
The King and I will tell the king the
interpretation
here we see what an authentic
relationship with God looks
like in faith Daniel stands firm against
tremendous Fierce opposition and
hardship and he stands firm in that
spot all the world is capitulating not
standing for truth not standing for
what's right not Daniel Dan stands firm
in his faith for what he knows is right
even in the most fierce opposition and
hardship it would have been so easy for
Daniel to complain right
here it would be so easy for Daniel to
say where is God in all this I purposed
in my heart to live with him and now my
life is in danger what good is my faith
in
God be real easy to do
it'd be really easy for Daniel to swow
Discord among his Brethren to say look
at this King what a bad leader what a
jerk he is I can't believe that King
he's horrible and just so
Discord be easy to
do it'd be easy to doubt God's goodness
to him he doesn't do any of those things
instead he stands firm in faith in a
true and living God who is good and he
goes before the king amidst impossible
odds he stands before the king and says
I believe in the true and living God and
he will give me the interpretation and
he does it before the king excuse me
before God has revealed anything to him
he stands firm in faith may we be the
same way this is what a genuine
relationship with God looks
like secondly you'll notice this Daniel
controls his feelings and speaks with
wisdom and he leads well even in the
most adverse and difficult
situation he goes to his boss and he
counsels him with
wisdom that's great
leadership arok slow down buddy slow
down I'm going to spend some time in
prayer on this let me go before the king
uh great leadership third
thirdly he goes into fervent
prayer and he seeks God for
wisdom and notice what he does not only
does Daniel pray but what else does he
do he calls all his buddies to pray with
them he says guys let's meet when was
the last time you called somebody and
said hey let's pray together let's meet
together do we value prayer that way
this is what a genuine relationship an
authentic relationship with God looks
like he
prays fourthly god mercifully provides
the solution to Daniel's
problem he reveals the dream to
Daniel and he mercifully uh reveals the
solution to the problem I love it when
God does this we have something that's
complex we don't know how to go and God
speaks to our heart something and
enlightens our eyes enl lightens our
understanding and now we know how to
deal with that TR troubled situation
beautiful this is what a genuine
relationship with God looks like it's
amazing to watch and this is what God
does and as a result of this Daniel
Praises god with awe and
Delight he comes to church ready with a
sing praises to his God he writes a
Lover's poem he writes a love song of
praise to his God his heart is
overwhelmed with both the goodness and
The Sovereign power of God
not only did God save Daniel's life but
God saved the lives of Nebuchadnezzar's
entire cabinet
including these Wicked Sorcerers just
amazing and in this we see the man that
God uses and by man I mean human we see
the person that God uses Daniel is a man
of
prayer Daniel is a man of disciplined
character he is not letting his emotions
control his life Daniel is a man full of
God's word and you say how do you know
that well in that little song that we
just read I spent quite a bit of time of
on that song this week and there are at
least 18 references in that song that
were directly quoted from the Old
Testament 18 different references I wish
I had time to go into them with you
Daniel knew his Bible Daniel knew God's
word Daniel was a man of character uh
this is the man God uses and this is
what a real relationship with God looks
like and do you see what God is doing
here God is inviting Daniel to
participate in this work that God is
doing in the
kingdom and that's what God does for you
and I let me ask you why did
Nebuchadnezzar have this dream in the
first place everything was going fine
why did Nebuchadnezzar have this
troubling dream
why God gave it to him and you say well
why did God give it to him here's why
God loves Nebuchadnezzar and
Nebuchadnezzar is off track and going to
hell God wants to save him so God gives
him a troubling dream to get him on a
new course secondly
God wants to reveal his sovereignty to
all the world he's going to reveal four
kingdoms five coming kingdoms World
kingdoms that will uh be a prophetic
Revelation to the world of what is
coming and you say
well why would Nebuchadnezzar want to
kill
everyone if this is God's plan here's
why because Nebuchadnezzar is a stinking
Sinner and this is how Sinners behave
and it's not out of God's
grasp and you say well uh why didn't God
just give the dream to Daniel and to
Nebuchadnezzar at the same
time and at pretty at some point you got
to say you got to quit asking why and
let God be God right here's why because
God has said as the heavens are higher
than the earth so is are my ways and my
understanding higher than your
understanding at some point we have to
trust God even when we don't understand
what's going on in the world what's
going on in our life why is this
happening this way trust that God is at
work and doing good things and that's
what Daniel did and this is what a
genuine authentic relationship with God
looks like God is building Daniel in a
myriad of
ways one of the ways God is building
Daniel is building his character under
extreme
hardship which will be
necessary to be the leader that God is
trying to build Daniel to be he's going
to have to be able to handle tremendous
hardship with great
character God is building Daniel in his
ability to stand firm under pressure
when everybody else is
capitulating God is building Daniel and
his ability to lead others in prayer
pray and in the word and in faith and on
and on and on I could go about how God
is building Daniel God wants to make
Daniel an advisor to
Kings and an advisor to
kingdoms and he is going to be for
decades to come God wants to make Daniel
a prophet to the Nations and God is
building Daniel as a man and as a man
who has a deep and abiding relation
relationship with a true and living God
this is what God is doing in Daniel's
life and I want you to know this is the
same thing God is doing in your
life this is what he wants to do with
us Daniel has an authentic relationship
with God and now God is going to use
Daniel's life in a huge way we're going
to see Daniel here will interpret the
dream and the pro it will reveal the
prophetic unveiling of world kingdoms uh
let's jump in verse 25 where where we
left
off then aroch quickly brought Daniel
before the
king and said this to the king I have
found a
man of the captains of Judah who will
make known to the king the
interpretation you are welcome King
what's arok doing right
there he's boasting trying to take
credit for
himself and can I just ask isn't it
ugly let's not do
that isn't boasting
ugly verse 26 and the King answered and
said to Daniel whose name was Bel chazar
are you able to make known to me the
dream which I have seen and its
interpretation and Daniel answered in
the presence of the king and said the
secret which the King has demanded the
wise men the astrologers the Magi the
susers they cannot declare it to the
king what's he saying King no man can
declare this dream to you it's not
humanly possible verse 28 but there is a
God in heaven the true and living God
who reveals secrets and he that true and
living God has made known to the King
Nebuchadnezzar what will be in the
latter days you might want to underline
that right there the dream is about what
will be in the latter
days this dream by the way will cover
human history from 600 BC all the way
through 2024
all the way through the second coming of
Jesus
Christ that's how powerful this dream
is and look at verse 29 Daniel's going
to now start telling him this dream as
for you oh King thoughts you might want
to circle the word thoughts thoughts
came to your mind when you were on your
bed about what would come to pass after
this the king just wanted to know the
what the dream was Daniel is telling the
king the thoughts he had when he was on
his bed before he went to sleep that
night
wow you see the King was wondering what
would come to pass after this after this
after what
well Nebuchadnezzar was now the leader
of the world and he's wondering what
comes next I conquered the whole world
what now what's next and he was
depressed just like Alexander the Great
committed suicide after he conquered the
whole world CU he had nothing else to
conquer not committed societ but got
drunk and died uh uh well Nebuchadnezzar
is having the same thoughts and Daniel
says hey I God knows what you were
thinking about that night and he who
reveals Secrets has made known to you
what will
be but as for me this secret has not
been revealed to me because I have more
wisdom than anyone living but for your
sakes who make excuse me but for our
sakes who make make known the
interpretation to the king and that you
may know the thoughts of your heart do
you understand what Daniel says here
Daniel says listen King it's not because
I'm great or because I'm
wise no man can do this God revealed the
secrets of your dream for two reasons
number one to save the lives of
everybody in your cabinet and number two
he cares because he cares about you King
he wants to tell you the secrets that
were on your heart he wants to talk talk
to you about what's troubling your
soul God is going to show Nebuchadnezzar
a greater Kingdom the kingdom of God and
uh he's trying to save
Nebuchadnezzar uh so interesting uh how
this happens here uh how different
Daniel's character must have seemed to
King
Nebuchadnezzar every official in his
court has been jocking for position with
self-promotion and boasting trying to
impress the king oh King I have found a
man and everything they do day after day
year after year is all about
self-promotion and
boasting and now here comes a young
man the only one who has a solution to
the king's problem the only one with any
real wisdom and he is totally
selfless totally humble he's Meek and he
is not doing anything for personal gain
and King Nebuchadnezzar must have been
refreshingly
shocked I was studying in proverbs 30
this week and I read a quote from
Spurgeon that I thought was really
appropo for this uh look what Spurgeon
says a quote from him let me hear you
read this unified voice when a man talks
of his own CLE cleanness his very lips
are foul with pride and when a man
boasts of his own wisdom he proclaims
with a trumpet sound that he is indeed a
fool when we tell everybody how amazing
we are Spurgeon says you are proclaiming
with a trumpet what a fool you are and
when we think we're actually a good
person we are simply revealing how foul
we really are let's go on rest of the
verse I mean rest of the quote read with
me have you ever noticed how the wise
man always laments his folly and how the
clean heart always Mourns its
uncleanliness uh what's he
saying it's not the Sinners of the world
you go to a drug addict and they'll say
I'm a good
person you go to
a whatever
uh and they'll think they're amazing you
go to someone who walks with God and
they'll say I'm a sinner man I'm a
sinner
and here's what Spurgeon says about that
we need Holiness to detect our
unholiness and we need wisdom to
discover how foolish we really are that
is why we need God in our life otherwise
we will think we are something when
we're not and that's called
delusion and we need God in our life
verse 31
you or King were watching in this dream
and behold a great image this great
image whose listen to these adjectives
whose Splendor was excellent stood
before you and its form was
awesome Nebuchadnezzar has this dream
Daniel's starting to explain this dream
to him and he says it was just
magnificent it was Splendid it was like
incredible and we're going to learn in
just a minute what the what he what the
vision he actually had was but it I
wonder what it looked like this Splendid
magnificent well it looks something like
this we're going to learn uh this is an
idea of what Nebuchadnezzar saw in his
dream look it was Splendid it was
awesome verse 32 the image head was of
fine gold and its chest and arms were of
silver and its belly and thighs were of
bronze
and its legs were of iron and its feet
were partly iron and partly of
clay uh here is what's happening God is
revealing to Nebuchadnezzar the kingdoms
of the
world and let's break it down just a
little bit the head which is fine gold
was the Babylonian Kingdom that
Nebuchadnezzar was the king
of
Nebuchadnezzar uh well excuse me the Neo
Babylonian Empire conquered Assyria in
622 excuse me 612 BC uh then his father
Nebuchadnezzar died and Nebuchadnezzar
became king and he besieged Jerusalem in
605 BC and he's now the leader of the
world that is this image the head of
fine gold that's the Babylonian Kingdom
the next Kingdom after the Babylonian
kingdom is listed its chest and arms
were of silver do you know what kingdom
was after the Babylonian Kingdom the MEO
Persian Empire you can remember it
because there's two arms the mes and the
Persians they came in and they conquered
the Babylonian Kingdom in 539 BC if
you're a history buff you know this
Cyrus the Great entered in Babylonian to
Babylon without even a battle he snuck
in because you know why because Babylon
had gotten so powerful so wealthy that
the king and all the cabinet was in a
drunken stuper and a party when King
Cyrus entered in that happened in 539 BC
Cyrus the Great uh that's the chest and
arms of silver its belly and thighs of
bronze were the Grecian Empire of
Alexander the Great that conquered the
MEO Persian Empire in 334 BC
how
incredible uh verse 33 its legs of iron
that's the Roman
Empire that conquered the Grecian Empire
in 146 BC and went all the way to
4768 the Roman Empire these four World
kingdoms uh that have existed and now
look at this its feet partly of iron and
partly of clay that is the fifth world
Empire that has not come into fruition
yet it is the revived Roman Empire by
the way how many kingdoms have
transpired so far
four uh this vision would be inaccurate
if there were more than four World
kingdoms there hasn't been a world
Empire since the Babylonian excuse me
since the Roman Empire and the next
World Empire will be the revived Roman
Empire uh fascinating fascinating and
look what happens verse 34
King you watch this was your dream and
you watched while a stone was cut
without hands do you know who that is
that is
Jesus that is a Biblical prophecy given
of Jesus in another place a stone cut
without hands which struck the image
where did it strike the
image on its feet of iron and clay that
will be this it'll strike this this
Kingdom that hasn't come into fruition
yet that's when Jesus will come back on
this fifth world Kingdom and will break
them into pieces and the iron excuse me
then the iron the clay the bronze the
silver the gold they were all crushed
together and they became like what chaff
just chaff if you don't know what chaff
is chaff is the what sep you know on the
wheat when you grow wheat you throw it
up in the air the wheat falls to the
ground the chaff is just the the rubble
that blows away it's worthless he says
these kingdoms are like chaff on the
summer threshing floors the wind carried
them away so that no Trace was of them
was found and the stone that was cut
without hands that stone struck the
image and became a great mountain and
filled the whole earth this is the
Messianic Kingdom Jesus's Kingdom that's
going to fill the whole earth uh in
verse 36 this is the dream and now we
will tell the interpretation of it
before the king and to get the
interpretation you got to come back next
Sunday we will look at the
interpretation of this dream next Sunday
but wow how powerful man how
powerful uh nowhere else in the Bible
except Daniel chapter 7 is a more
comprehensive picture given of world
history this prophecy covers from 600 BC
the Babylonian Kingdom it covers the
Babylonian Kingdom the MEO Persian
Kingdom The Grecian Empire the Roman
Empire and the revived Roman Empire
that's coming under the leadership of
the Antichrist and then the ultimate
Kingdom the Messianic Kingdom that will
Jesus will come and judge the entire
world and we'll look at the
interpretation of that next week be a
great study to read ahead on I want you
to know four of these kingdoms have been
fulfilled exact L as Daniel is going to
teach us next week it's come to pass the
Fulfillment is confirmed by history and
it is 100%
accurate and if these four kingdoms
happened exactly as they said you would
be very wise to put all your money in
the bank on this fifth Kingdom that's
coming exactly as God
said Daniel's prophecy reveals that God
is Sovereign over all
things and I told you in verse four that
God switched from Hebrew to
Aramaic and now you know
why do you know
why you should know why Hebrew is the
language to the
Jews Aramaic was the language to the
entire world at that
time this message is not just for the
Jewish people it is for all the kings in
the world all the people of the world
all the kingdoms of the world and so
from chapter 2 to chapter 7 we're going
to be looking at stuff that has a
message of God to the entire world not
just to the Jewish people and for that
he speaks their
language how
incredible as we leave may we hold on to
this God is Sovereign over all the kings
and all the kingdoms of the world
and those who come to him and worship
him as
Lord he builds their life with wisdom
discernment and light so they may know
how to walk if you are here today and
you have not made Jesus Christ your
lord if you have believed in a different
Jesus just as God is calling
Nebuchadnezzar this lost man in these
chapters so God is calling us to him
right now
don't leave today without giving your
life to Jesus